docs(css): FF126 - Support for `shape()` function (#33446)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/basic-shape/shape/index.md

    - `<line-command>`: Specified as `line [by | to] <coordinate-pair>`. This command adds a [LineTo command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#lineto_path_commands) to the list of shape commands. It draws a straight line from the command's starting point to its ending point. The `by`or `to` keyword specify whether the ending point specified by `<coordinate-pair>` is "relative" or "absolute", respectively.

    - `<hv-line-command>`: Specified as `[hline | vline] [by | to] <length-percentage>`. This command adds a horizontal (`hline`) or vertical (`vline`) [LineTo command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#lineto_path_commands) to the list of shape commands. It draws a horizontal or vertical line from the command's starting point to its ending point. The `by`or `to` keyword determine the "relative" or "absolute" ending point, respectively. This command is equivalent to `<line-command>` with `<length-percentage>` providing the horizontal or vertical component.

>     - `<curve-command>`: Specified as `curve [by | to] <coordinate-pair> via <coordinate-pair> [<coordinate-pair>]`. This command adds a [Bézier curve command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#cubic_bézier_curve_commands) to the list of shape commands. The `by`or `to` keyword determine whether the ending point of the curve, specified by the first `<coordinate-pair>`, is "relative" or "absolute", respectively.

Author: Nice hint! Thanks

>     - `<curve-command>`: Specified as `curve [by | to] <coordinate-pair> via <coordinate-pair> [<coordinate-pair>]`. This command adds a [Bézier curve command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#cubic_bézier_curve_commands) to the list of shape commands. The `by`or `to` keyword determine whether the ending point of the curve, specified by the first `<coordinate-pair>`, is "relative" or "absolute", respectively.

Author: The link on `d` page is working fine with the anchor as `#cubic_bézier_curve_commands` but when I copy paste from the URL, it does give me https://pr33446.content.dev.mdn.mozit.cloud/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#cubic_b%C3%A9zier_curve_commands.

With the suggested update for the link on the `shape()` page, the link is working in local preview. Hopefully it will work.

      The `via` keyword specifies the control points of the curve as one or two `<coordinate-pair>` values. If a single `<coordinate-pair>` is provided, the command draws a [quadratic Bézier curve](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#quadratic-bézier-curve-commands); if two `<coordinate-pair>`s are provided, the command draws a cubic Bézier curve.

>     - `<smooth-command>`: Specified as `smooth [by | to] <coordinate-pair> [via <coordinate-pair>]`. This command adds a smooth [Bézier curve command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#cubic_bézier_curve_commands) to the list of shape commands. The `by`or `to` keyword determine whether the ending point of the curve, specified by the first `<coordinate-pair>`, is "relative" or "absolute", respectively.

Reviewer: Let me know if this works ;)

>     - `<smooth-command>`: Specified as `smooth [by | to] <coordinate-pair> [via <coordinate-pair>]`. This command adds a smooth [Bézier curve command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#cubic_bézier_curve_commands) to the list of shape commands. The `by`or `to` keyword determine whether the ending point of the curve, specified by the first `<coordinate-pair>`, is "relative" or "absolute", respectively.

Author: Working in local preview

---
title: shape()
slug: Web/CSS/basic-shape/shape
page-type: css-function
browser-compat: css.types.basic-shape.shape
---

{{CSSRef}}

> The **`shape()`** [CSS function](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Functions) is used to define a shape for the {{cssxref("clip-path")}} and {{cssxref("offset-path")}} properties. It combines an initial starting point with a series of shape commands that define the path of the shape. The `shape()` function is one of the {{cssxref("&lt;basic-shape&gt;")}} data types.

Author: > just want to confirm, not d or shape-outside?

I believe so. Those are the only two properties, "clip-path" and "offset-path", for which we had Firefox bugs (listed in the PR description) and for which we have [web platform tests](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3Aweb-platform-tests%2Fwpt+https%3A%2F%2Fdrafts.csswg.org%2Fcss-shapes-2%2F%23shape-function&type=code).

> Do we want to add that it's similar to path except with CSS instead of SVG norms?

This info is covered in the "Description" section

## Syntax

> ```css

Reviewer: I didn't test these. Can you double check they all work?

/* <fill-rule> */

> clip-path: shape(nonzero from 0 0, line to 10px 10px);

Author: The intention here is to show only one `<shape-command>`

> clip-path: shape(nonzero from 0px 0px, line to 10px 10px);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
clip-path: shape(nonzero from 0 0, line to 10px 10px);
```

/* <move-command>, <line-command>, and close */

> offset-path: shape(from 10px 10px, move by 10px 5px, line by 20px 40%, close);

Author: Yes, this is intentional...to indicate the starting position for the next command without drawing anything. This is also demo'ed in the first example https://pr33446.content.dev.mdn.mozit.cloud/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/basic-shape/shape#using_shape_to_define_a_path. For further illustration, I am now adding `close` to `shape2` in the follow-up PR.

/* <hvline-command> */
offset-path: shape(from 10px 10px, hline by 50px, vline to 5rem);

/* <curve-command> */
offset-path: shape(from 10px 10px, curve to 80px 80px via 160px 1px 20% 16px);

/* <smooth-command> */
offset-path: shape(from 10px 10px, smooth to 100px 50pt);

/* <arc-command> */
offset-path: shape(
  from 5% 0.5rem,
  arc to 80px 1pt of 10% ccw large rotate 25deg
);

/* Using a CSS math function */
offset-path: shape(
  from 5px -5%,
  hline to 50px,
  vline by calc(0% + 160px),
  hline by 70.5px,
  close,
  vline by 60px
);

> clip-path: shape(

Author: Done in https://pr33783.content.dev.mdn.mozit.cloud/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/basic-shape/shape#syntax

  nonzero from 10px 10px,
  curve to 60px 20% via 40px 0,
  smooth to 90px 0,
  curve by -20px 60% via 10% 40px 20% 20px,
  smooth by -40% -10px via -10px 70px
);
```

### Parameters

- [`<fill-rule>`](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/fill-rule) {{optional_inline}}

  - : Specifies how overlapping regions of a shape should be filled. The possible values include:

    - `nonzero`: A point is considered inside the shape if a ray drawn from the point crosses more left-to-right than right-to-left path segments, resulting in a non-zero count. This is the default value when `<fill-rule>` is omitted.

>     - `evenodd`: A point is considered inside the shape if a ray drawn from the point crosses an odd number of path segments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `evenodd`: A point is considered inside the shape if a ray drawn from the point crosses an odd number of path segments (the last time it crossed into the shape it did not cross back out.)
```
this change is not necessary, but the SVG fill rules values make so little sense and i don't think it is ever explained, until the "nonzero" above that i find my little aside helpful as a corollary to that definition

Author: Adding:

> This means that for each time the ray enters the shape, it has not exited an equal number of times, indicating an odd count of entries without corresponding exits.

    > **Note:** `<fill-rule>` is not supported in {{cssxref("offset-path")}} and using it invalidates the property.

- `from <coordinate-pair>`

>   - : Defines the starting point for the first `<shape-command>` as a pair of coordinates that are measured from the top-left corner of the reference box. The coordinates are specified as a {{cssxref("&lt;length-percentage&gt;")}} value. Add a comma after this parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Defines the starting point for the first `<shape-command>` as a pair of coordinates that are measured from the top-left corner of the reference box. The coordinates are specified as space-separated `x y` {{cssxref("&lt;length-percentage&gt;")}} values representing the left offset and top offset, respectively. Percentage values are relative to the width or height of the element's reference box, respectively. Add a comma after this parameter.
```

>   - : Defines the starting point for the first `<shape-command>` as a pair of coordinates that are measured from the top-left corner of the reference box. The coordinates are specified as a {{cssxref("&lt;length-percentage&gt;")}} value. Add a comma after this parameter.

Author: Done

- `<shape-command>`

>   - : Specifies a list of one or more comma-separated commands that define the shape, using syntax similar to [SVG path commands](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#path_commands). Commands include `<move-command>`, `<line-command>`, `<hv-line-command>`, `<curve-command>`, `<smooth-command>`, `<arc-command>`, and `close`. Each command's starting point is the previous command's ending point; the starting point of the shape defined by the [`from <coordinate-pair>`](#from_coordinate-pair) parameter.

Author: Accepting suggestion but also removing the existing ";"

>   - : Specifies one or a list of comma-seperated commands that define the shape, using syntax similar to [SVG path commands](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#path_commands). The commands to define a shape include `<move-command>`, `<line-command>`, `<hv-line-command>`, `<curve-command>`, `<smooth-command>`, `<arc-command>`, and `close`. Each command's starting point is the previous command's ending point; the starting point of the shape is defined by the [`from <coordinate-pair>`](#from_coordinate-pair) parameter.

Author: Accepting all except the "with"

    The syntax of most shape commands is an operation keyword, such as `move` or `line`, followed by the `by` or `to` keyword, and a set of coordinates.

    `by`: Indicates that the `<coordinate-pair>` is relative to the command's starting point ("relative" value).

>     `to`: Indicates that the `<coordinate-pair>` is relative to the top-left corner of the reference box ("absolute" value).

Author: The definition of `<coordinate-pair>` is included in the previous value [`from <coordiante-pair>`](https://pr33446.content.dev.mdn.mozit.cloud/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/basic-shape/shape#from_coordinate-pair)

    > **Note:** If a coordinate in `<coordinate-pair>` is specified as a percentage, the value is calculated relative to the respective width or height of the reference box.

    The following `<shape-command>`s can be specified:

>     - `<move-command>`: Specified as `move [by | to] <coordinate-pair>`. This command adds a [MoveTo command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#moveto_path_commands) to the list of shape commands. It does not draw a shape; rather it specifies the position for the next command. The `by`or `to` keyword specify whether the `<coordinate-pair>` point is "relative" or "absolute", respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `<move-command>`: Specified as `move [by | to] <coordinate-pair>`. This command adds a [MoveTo command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#moveto_path_commands) to the list of shape commands. It draws nothing. Rather, it specifies the starting position for the next command. The `by`or `to` keyword specify whether the `<coordinate-pair>` point is "relative" or "absolute", respectively. If the `move` command follows a `closepath` command, it identifies the starting point of the next shape or subpath. 
```
shape felt like 'shape' rather than 'line', so making it clearer i hope

Author: Gotcha, yeah very nuanced, your version seems better to remove ambiguity.
Edited the last sentence for the names of these commands in `shape()`

>     - `<move-command>`: Specified as `move [by | to] <coordinate-pair>`. This command adds a [MoveTo command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#moveto_path_commands) to the list of shape commands. It draws nothing. Rather, it specifies the starting position for the next command. The `by` or `to` keyword specifies whether the `<coordinate-pair>` point is "relative" or "absolute", respectively. If the `<move-command>` follows the `close` command, it identifies the starting point of the next shape or subpath.

Author: Removed the quotes after the first definition.

To demo the `<move-command>` after the `close` command, made some changes to the first example. Updated the animation and for `shape1`, added a `close` and a `move` after this `close` (also added an `hline` after `move` to show the impact of `move`).

>     - `<move-command>`: Specified as `move [by | to] <coordinate-pair>`. This command adds a [MoveTo command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#moveto_path_commands) to the list of shape commands. It draws nothing. Rather, it specifies the starting position for the next command. The `by`or `to` keyword specify whether the `<coordinate-pair>` point is "relative" or "absolute", respectively. If the `<move-command>` follows the `close` command, it identifies the starting point of the next shape or subpath.

Reviewer: "keyword specifies" or "keywords specify"

>     - `<line-command>`: Specified as `line [by | to] <coordinate-pair>`. This command adds a [LineTo command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#lineto_path_commands) to the list of shape commands. It draws a straight line from the command's starting point to its ending point. The `by`or `to` keyword specify whether the ending point specified by `<coordinate-pair>` is "relative" or "absolute", respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `<line-command>`: Specified as `line [by | to] <coordinate-pair>`. This command adds a [LineTo command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#lineto_path_commands) to the list of shape commands. It draws a straight line from the command's starting point to its ending point. The `by` or `to` keyword specifies whether the ending point specified by `<coordinate-pair>` is "relative" or "absolute", respectively.
```

>     - `<hv-line-command>`: Specified as `[hline | vline] [by | to] <length-percentage>`. This command adds a horizontal (`hline`) or vertical (`vline`) [LineTo command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#lineto_path_commands) to the list of shape commands. It draws a horizontal or vertical line from the command's starting point to its ending point. The `by`or `to` keyword determine the "relative" or "absolute" ending point, respectively. This command is equivalent to `<line-command>` with `<length-percentage>` providing the horizontal or vertical component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `<hv-line-command>`: Specified as `[hline | vline] [by | to] <length-percentage>`. This command adds a horizontal (`hline`) or vertical (`vline`) [LineTo command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#lineto_path_commands) to the list of shape commands. With `hline`, a horizontal line is drawn from the command's starting point `to` or `by` the `x` position defined by the `<length-percentage>`. For `vline`, a vertical line  is drawn from the command's starting point `to` or `by` the `y` position defined by the `<length-percentage>`. The `by` or `to` keyword determines the "relative" or "absolute" ending point, respectively. This command is equivalent to `<line-command>` with one coordinate value remaining unchanged from its starting command.
```

Author: Nice one, thanks! Only removed the "the" before "`<length-percentage>`"

>     - `<hv-line-command>`: Specified as `[hline | vline] [by | to] <length-percentage>`. This command adds a horizontal (`hline`) or vertical (`vline`) [LineTo command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#lineto_path_commands) to the list of shape commands. With `hline`, a horizontal line is drawn from the command's starting point `to` or `by` the `x` position defined by `<length-percentage>`. With `vline`, a vertical line is drawn from the command's starting point `to` or `by` the `y` position defined by `<length-percentage>`. The `by` or `to` keyword determines the "relative" or "absolute" ending point, respectively. This command is equivalent to `<line-command>` with one coordinate value remaining unchanged from its starting command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `<hv-line-command>`: Specified as `[hline | vline] [by | to] <length-percentage>`. This command adds a horizontal (`hline`) or vertical (`vline`) [LineTo command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#lineto_path_commands) to the list of shape commands. With `hline`, a horizontal line is drawn from the command's starting point `to` or `by` the `x` position defined by `<length-percentage>`. With `vline`, a vertical line is drawn from the command's starting point `to` or `by` the `y` position defined by `<length-percentage>`. The `by` or `to` keyword determines the "relative" or "absolute" ending point, respectively. This command is equivalent to `<line-command>` with one coordinate value set by the single `<length-percentage>` and the other coordinate value remaining unchanged from its starting command.
```

    - `<curve-command>`: Specified as `curve [by | to] <coordinate-pair> via <coordinate-pair> [<coordinate-pair>]`. This command adds a [Bézier curve command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#cubic_bézier_curve) to the list of shape commands. The `by`or `to` keyword determines whether the ending point of the curve, specified by the first `<coordinate-pair>`, is "relative" or "absolute", respectively.

>       The `via` keyword specifies the control points of the curve as one or two `<coordinate-pair>` values. If a single `<coordinate-pair>` is provided, the command draws a [quadratic Bézier curve](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#quadratic_bézier_curve); if two `<coordinate-pair>`s are provided, the command draws a cubic Bézier curve.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      The `via` keyword specifies the control points of the cubic Bézier curve as one or two `<coordinate-pair>` values. If only a single `<coordinate-pair>` is provided, the command draws a [quadratic Bézier curve](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#quadratic_bézier_curve).
```
in both cases it's a cubic Bézier curve, so only iterate that a single value produces a special type of curve.

>       The `via` keyword specifies the control points of the cubic Bézier curve as one or two `<coordinate-pair>` values. If only a single `<coordinate-pair>` is provided, the command draws a [quadratic Bézier curve](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#quadratic_bézier_curve).

Author: ```suggestion
      The `via` keyword specifies the control points of the Bézier curve. If only a single `<coordinate-pair>` is provided, the command draws a [quadratic Bézier curve](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#quadratic_bézier_curve), which is defined by three points (the start point, control point, and end point). If two `<coordinate-pair>` values are provided, the command draws a cubic Bézier curve, which is defined by four points (the start point, two control points, and the end point).
```

    - `<smooth-command>`: Specified as `smooth [by | to] <coordinate-pair> [via <coordinate-pair>]`. This command adds a smooth [Bézier curve command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#cubic_bézier_curve) to the list of shape commands. The `by`or `to` keyword determines whether the ending point of the curve, specified by the first `<coordinate-pair>`, is "relative" or "absolute", respectively.

>       The `via` keyword can be optionally included to specify the control points of the curve through `<coordinate-pair>`. If `via <coordinate-pair>` is omitted, the command draws a smooth quadratic curve; if it is provided, the command draws a smooth cubic curve.

Reviewer: we need to say what the difference is between quadratic and smooth briefly in this page..

Reviewer: ah, i already made the same comment

Author: I added an explanation

>       The `via` keyword can be optionally included to specify the control points of the curve through `<coordinate-pair>`. If `via <coordinate-pair>` is omitted, the command draws a smooth quadratic curve; if it is provided, the command draws a smooth cubic curve.

Author: ```suggestion
      The `via` keyword can be optionally included to specify the control points of the curve through `<coordinate-pair>`. If `via <coordinate-pair>` is omitted, the command draws a smooth quadratic Bézier curve, which uses the previous control point and the current end point to define the curve. If it is provided, the command draws a smooth cubic Bézier curve, which is defined by the previous control point, the current control point, and the current end point. Smooth curves ensure a continuous transition from the shape, while quadratic curves do not. Smooth quadratic curves maintain a seamless transition using a single control point, whereas smooth cubic curves provide a more refined transition using two control points.
```

    - `<arc-command>`: Specified as `arc [by | to] <coordinate-pair> of <length-percentage> [<length-percentage>] [<arc-sweep> | <arc-size> | rotate <angle>]`. This command adds an [elliptical arc curve command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#elliptical_arc_curve) to the list of shape commands. It draws an elliptical arc between a starting point and an ending point. The `by`or `to` keyword determine whether the ending point of the curve, specified by the first `<coordinate-pair>`, is "relative" or "absolute", respectively.

>       The elliptical arc curve command defines two possible ellipses, which intersect both the starting and ending points, and each can be traced in either direction, resulting in four possible arcs. The `of` keyword specifies the size of the ellipse fom which the arc is taken. The first `<length-percentage>` provides the horizontal radius of the ellipse, and the second provides the vertical radius. If only one `<length-percentage>` is provided, the same value is used for both the radii. The following parameters help to choose from a possibility of four arcs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      The elliptical arc curve command defines two possible ellipses, which intersect both the starting and ending points, and each can be traced in either direction, resulting in four possible arcs depending on the arc size, direction, and angle. The `of` keyword specifies the size of the ellipse from which the arc is taken. The first `<length-percentage>` provides the horizontal radius of the ellipse, and the second provides the vertical radius. If only one `<length-percentage>` is provided, the same value is used for both radii. The following parameters help to determine which of the four arcs is used:
```

>     - `<arc-command>`: Specified as `arc [by | to] <coordinate-pair> of <length-percentage> [<length-percentage>] [<arc-sweep> | <arc-size> | rotate <angle>]`. This command adds an [elliptical arc curve command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#elliptical_arc_curve) to the list of shape commands. It draws an elliptical arc between a starting point and an ending point. The `by`or `to` keyword determine whether the ending point of the curve, specified by the first `<coordinate-pair>`, is "relative" or "absolute", respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `<arc-command>`: Specified as `arc [by | to] <coordinate-pair> of <length-percentage> [<length-percentage>] [<arc-sweep> | <arc-size> | rotate <angle>]`. This command adds an [elliptical arc curve command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#elliptical_arc_curve) to the list of shape commands. It draws an elliptical arc between a starting point and an ending point. The `by` or `to` keyword determines whether the ending point of the curve, specified by the first `<coordinate-pair>`, is "relative" or "absolute", respectively.
```

>       The `via` keyword can be optionally included to specify the control points of the curve through `<coordinate-pair>`. If `via <coordinate-pair>` is omitted, the command draws a smooth quadratic Bézier curve, which uses the previous control point and the current end point to define the curve. If it is provided, the command draws a smooth cubic Bézier curve, which is defined by the previous control point, the current control point, and the current end point. Smooth curves ensure a continuous transition from the shape, while quadratic curves do not. Smooth quadratic curves maintain a seamless transition using a single control point, whereas smooth cubic curves provide a more refined transition using two control points.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      If `via <coordinate-pair>` is omitted, the command draws a smooth quadratic Bézier curve, which uses the previous control point and the current endpoint to define the curve. If the optional `via` keyword is included, it specifies the control points of the curve through `<coordinate-pair>`, drawing a smooth cubic Bézier curve defined by the previous control point, the current control point, and the current endpoint. Smooth curves ensure a continuous transition from the shape, while quadratic curves do not. Smooth quadratic curves maintain a seamless transition using a single control point, whereas smooth cubic curves provide a more refined transition using two control points.
```
reordered b/c the 2nd sentence was separating the first sentence from its third sentence explanation. The first sentence introduces a non-intuitive concept, so want to keep it together with its explanation

>       The elliptical arc curve command defines two possible ellipses, which intersect both the starting and ending points, and each can be traced in either direction, resulting in four possible arcs depending on the arc size, direction, and angle. The `of` keyword specifies the size of the ellipse from which the arc is taken. The first `<length-percentage>` provides the horizontal radius of the ellipse, and the second provides the vertical radius. If only one `<length-percentage>` is provided, the same value is used for both radii. The following parameters help to determine which of the four arcs are used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      The elliptical arc curve command defines two possible ellipses, which intersect both the starting and ending points, and each can be traced in either direction, resulting in four possible arcs depending on the arc size, direction, and angle. The `of` keyword specifies the size of the ellipse from which the arc is taken. The first `<length-percentage>` provides the horizontal radius of the ellipse and the second provides the vertical radius. If only one `<length-percentage>` is provided, the same value is used for both radii. The following parameters help to determine which of the four arcs are used:
```

      - `<arc-sweep>`: Indicates whether the desired arc is the one traced around the ellipse clockwise (`cw`) or counter-clockwise (`ccw`). If omitted, this defaults to `ccw`.
      - `<arc-size>`: Indicates whether the desired arc is the larger (`large`) or smaller (`small`) of the two arcs. If omitted, this defaults to `small`.
      - `<angle>`: Specifies the angle, in degrees, by which to rotate the ellipse relative to the x-axis. A positive angle rotates the ellipse clockwise, and a negative angle rotates it counter-clockwise. If omitted, this defaults to `0deg`.

      > **Note:** If the starting and ending points of the arc lie on exactly opposite sides of the ellipse, there is only one possible ellipse and two possible arcs. In this case, `<arc-sweep>` specifies the arc to choose, and `<arc-size>` has no effect.

>     - `close`: Adds a [ClosePath command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#closepath) to the list of shape commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `close`: Adds a [ClosePath command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#closepath) to the list of shape commands, drawing a straight line from the current position (end of the last command) to the first point in the path defined in the `from x y,` parameter. To close the shape without drawing a line, use `moveto` with the originating coordinates. If the `closepath` command is immediately followed by a `move` command, the moveTo defines the starting point of the next subpath or shape. 
```

Author: Updated the names of the commands

>       The elliptical arc curve command defines two possible ellipses, which intersect both the starting and ending points, and each can be traced in either direction, resulting in four possible arcs depending on the arc size, direction, and angle. The `of` keyword specifies the size of the ellipse from which the arc is taken. The first `<length-percentage>` provides the horizontal radius of the ellipse and the second provides the vertical radius. If only one `<length-percentage>` is provided, the same value is used for both radii. The following parameters help to determine which of the four arcs are used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      The elliptical arc curve command defines two possible ellipses, which intersect both the starting and ending points, and each can be traced clockwise or counterclockwise, resulting in four possible arcs depending on the arc size, direction, and angle. The `of` keyword specifies the size of the ellipse from which the arc is taken. The first `<length-percentage>` provides the horizontal radius of the ellipse and the second provides the vertical radius. If only one `<length-percentage>` is provided, the value is used for both radii (the radius of a circle). The following parameters help to determine which of the four arcs are used:
```

>     - `close`: Adds a [ClosePath command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#closepath) to the list of shape commands, drawing a straight line from the current position (end of the last command) to the first point in the path defined in the `from <coordinate-pair>` parameter. To close the shape without drawing a line, use `<move-command>` with the originating coordinates. If the `close` command is immediately followed by a `<move-command>`, it defines the starting point of the next shape or subpath.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `close`: Adds a [ClosePath command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#closepath) to the list of shape commands, drawing a straight line from the current position (end of the last command) to the first point in the path defined in the `from <coordinate-pair>` parameter. To close the shape without drawing a line, include a `<move-command>` with the originating coordinates before the close command. If the `close` command is immediately followed by a `<move-command>`, it defines the starting point of the next shape or subpath.
```

## Description

> The `shape()` function allows you to define complex shapes. It is similar to the {{cssxref("basic-shape/path","path()")}} function in several ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `shape()` function allows you to define complex shapes. It is similar to the {{cssxref("basic-shape/path","path()")}} shape function in several ways:
```

>       > **Note:** If the starting and ending points of the arc lie on exactly opposite sides of the ellipse, there is only one possible ellipse and two possible arcs. In this case, `<arc-sweep>` specifies the arc to choose, and `<arc-size>` has no effect.

Reviewer: if only one radius is included, does the arc-size value make a difference? or angle? Should we add a note about this, or add a sentence to the arc size and angle descriptions?

Author: Good point. Combined the various situations and listed as bullet points. 
    

> Special situations are handled as follows:
> 
> - If only one `<length-percentage>` is provided, the same value is used for both the horizontal and vertical radii, effectively creating a circle. In this case, `<arc-size>` and `<angle>` have no affect.
> - If either radius is zero, the command is equivalent to a `<line-command>` to the ending point.
> - If either radius is negative, its absolute value is used instead.
> - If the horizontal and vertical radii don’t describe an ellipse large enough to intersect both the starting point and ending points (after rotation by the specified `<angle>`), the radii are scaled up uniformly until the ellipse is just large enough to intersect both points.
> - If the starting and ending points of the arc lie on exactly opposite sides of the ellipse, there is only one possible ellipse and two possible arcs. In this case, `<arc-sweep>` specifies the arc to choose, and `<arc-size>` has no effect.

See `<arc-command>` in https://pr33783.content.dev.mdn.mozit.cloud/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/basic-shape/shape#parameters for other accompanying updates.

- The `<fill-rule>` parameter in the `shape()` function works exactly like the same parameter in the `path()` function.
- The `shape()` function requires specifying one or more `<shape-command>`s, where each command uses an underlying [path command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#path_commands), such as [MoveTo](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#moveto_path_commands), [LineTo](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#lineto_path_commands), and [ClosePath](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#closepath).

However, `shape()` offers several advantages over using `path()`:

> - Unlike `path()`, which uses the [SVG path](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Element/path) syntax, `shape()` uses standard CSS syntax, making it easier to create and modify shapes directly in your stylesheet.
> - The `path()` function inherits some limitations from SVG, such as requiring shapes to be written as a single string and limiting units to `px`. The `shape()` function, on the other hand, supports a variety of CSS units, including percentages, `rem`, and `em`.
> - `shape()` also allows the use of CSS math functions, providing more versatility when defining shapes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `shape()` uses standard CSS syntax making it easier to create and modify shapes directly in your stylesheet than `path()`, which uses the [SVG path](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Element/path) syntax, .
- The `shape()` function supports a variety of CSS units, including percentages, `rem`, and `em`, unlike the `path()` function which defines shapes as a single string and limits units to `px`. 
- `shape()` also allows the use of CSS math functions, providing more versatility when defining shapes.
```
put shape first in all to see the benefits of current page as compared to drawbacks of something defined elsewhere.

Author: Good point. Fixed.

>     - `close`: Adds a [ClosePath command](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/d#closepath) to the list of shape commands, drawing a straight line from the current position (end of the last command) to the first point in the path defined in the `from <coordinate-pair>` parameter. To close the shape without drawing a line, include a `<move-command>` with the originating coordinates before the close command. If the `close` command is immediately followed by a `<move-command>`, it defines the starting point of the next shape or subpath.

Reviewer: again, the "If the <move-command> follows the close command," part would definitely benefit from an example.

Author: Done as indicated in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/33446#discussion_r1616444437

> - `shape()` supports a variety of CSS units, including percentages, `rem`, and `em`. `path()`, on the other hand, defines shapes as a single string and limits units to `px`.

Reviewer: missing path()

Author: Not sure what this comment means

Reviewer: I think i meant `calc()`

> - `shape()` also allows the use of CSS math functions, providing more versatility when defining shapes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `shape()` allows the use of CSS math functions, providing versatility when defining shapes.
```

Reviewer: does this mean calc or other math functions? we should link or example this if its not just calc() (there's already a calc example above)

Author: I'll have to come back to this later outside this PR. The spec does say math functions but in code I see only calc() examples

Reviewer: I tested it.
```suggestion
- `shape()` also allows the use of CSS math functions, like {{cssxref("calc")}}, {{cssxref("max")}}, and {{cssxref("abs")}}, providing more versatility when defining shapes.
```

## Formal syntax

{{csssyntax}}

## Examples

### Using `shape()` to define a path

> This example demonstrates how the `shape()` function can be used in the {{cssxref("offset-path")}} property to define the shape of the path that an element can follow. We're creating a curved path in this example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates how the `shape()` function can be used in the {{cssxref("offset-path")}} property to define the shape of the path an element can follow. We're creating a curved path in this example.
```

```html hidden
<div class="container">
  Using <code>&lt;curve-command&gt;</code>
  <div class="shape shape1">>></div>
</div>

<div class="container">
  Using <code>&lt;move-command&gt;</code> and
  <code>&lt;hvline-command&gt;</code>
  <div class="shape shape2">>></div>
</div>
```

```css hidden
body {
  align-items: center;
  justify-content: center;
  display: flex;
}

.container {
  position: relative;
  display: inline-block;
  width: 250px;
  height: 250px;
  border: 2px dotted green;
  margin: 20px;
}
```

```css
.shape {
  width: 50px;
  height: 50px;
  background: #2bc4a2;
  position: absolute;
  text-align: center;
  line-height: 50px;
  animation: move 5s infinite alternate ease-in-out;
}

.shape1 {

>   offset-path: shape(from 30% 60px, curve to 180px 180px via 90px 190px);

Reviewer: i see `close` isn't used. we should mention above that closing a shape is optional and maybe explain the point of closing a shape

Author: `close` is one of the shape commands and hasn't been flagged as mandatory in the shape command list. But you have a fair point about explaining in text what happens when we don't add `close`. I'm afraid I'll have to come back to this later (after this PR) along with info about `calc()` vs other math functions

>   offset-path: shape(from 30% 60px, curve to 180px 180px via 90px 190px);

Author: The use of a mix of % and length unit is intentional.

}

.shape2 {
  offset-path: shape(

>     from 20px 20px,
>     move to 50px 90px,
>     hline to 8em,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    from 50px 90px,
    hline to 8em,
    move to 50px 90px,
```
In your code the `move` command is being redundant. Because [the `move` command draws nothing](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-shapes-2/#typedef-shape-move-command), it merely moves the pointer thus it is not animaable.

If we simply move the `move to` command after `hline to` we can infact demo this fact.

Author: Done, although I've also updated CSS for `shape1` to demo `move`

    vline by 20%
  );
}

@keyframes move {
  0% {
    offset-distance: 0%;
  }
  100% {
    offset-distance: 100%;
  }

> }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
}

@supports not (clip-path: shape(from 0 0, move to 0 0)) {
  .container {
    display: none;
  }

  body::after {
    content: "Your browser doesn't support the feature yet.";
  }
}
```
Let's save readers some time before they spend time figuring out that it's not supported in their browsers yet.

Reviewer: how about "Your browser doesn't support the shape() function yet.";

Author: Currently, `shape()` is implemented only in Firefox, behind a preference.

```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample('Using shape() to define a path', '100%', 300)}}

### Using `shape()` to define the visible part of an element

This example demonstrates how the `shape()` function can be used in the {{cssxref("clip-path")}} property to create the shape of the clipping region.

```html hidden
<div class="container">
  <div class="shape shape1"></div>
</div>

<div class="container">
  <div class="shape shape2"></div>
</div>
```

```css hidden
body {
  align-items: center;
  justify-content: center;
  display: flex;
}

.container {
  position: relative;
  display: inline-block;
  width: 200px;
  height: 200px;
  margin: 20px;
  background-color: lightgray;
}
```

```css
.shape {
  width: 100%;
  height: 100%;
  background: #2bc4a2;
  position: absolute;
  text-align: center;
  line-height: 50px;
}

/* Simple triangle */
.shape1 {
  clip-path: shape(from 0% 0%, line to 100% 0%, line to 50% 100%, close);
}

/* More complex shape with curves and smooth transitions */
.shape2 {
  clip-path: shape(
    from 10px 10px,
    curve to 60px 20% via 40px 0,
    smooth to 90px 0,
    curve by -20px 60% via 10% 40px 20% 20px,

>     smooth by -40% -10px via -10px 70px

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    smooth by -40% -10px via -10px 70px,  close,
    move to 100px 100px,
    hline by 50px,
    vline by 50px,
    hline by -50px,
    close
```
if you want.
This shows the example of the "moveto" after a close, and adds a box.

Author: Done in https://pr33783.content.dev.mdn.mozit.cloud/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/basic-shape/shape#using_shape_to_define_the_visible_part_of_an_element. Also updated the example description.

  );

> }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
}

@supports not (clip-path: shape(from 0 0, move to 0 0)) {
  .container {
    display: none;
  }

  body::after {
    content: "Your browser doesn't support the feature yet.";
  }
}
```
